Hello friends, welcome to Tips.
Today we are going to talk about one of our weavers who has
asked us a question in the comments. We will
answer that question and discuss it completely in this video.
So the question asked is, Sir, does the
claim get rejected even after it is approved?
So the
question that you are asking is, Sir, can the claim get rejected even after the initial approval,
before the final approval, or even at the time of final approval? If
we take any cashless treatment, then we get
two approvals from the insurance company, one is
initial and one is final. So,
even after the initial approval, the claim gets
rejected. So, you want to know this detail.
This is a common question
and is for everyone. So, I
thought it very important to make a video on this. Watch this video and
all your doubts will be
cleared as to why it gets
rejected after the initial approval. So,
let's start the video.
[Music]
First of all, I would like to thank you for this video.
You have
asked us a very important question.  I am answering this question,
you guys should also watch this video
carefully and this is a very
important question for everyone, so the question they have
asked is to know that sir,
even after getting the initial approval, our
claim can get rejected or not,
so I would like to tell you that
even after getting the initial approval, the cashless claim gets rejected, there are
many reasons for rejection, so I am going to
tell you the same reasons and I am going to tell you some things so that
you keep them in mind in future
and your claim does not get rejected, it should
not get rejected after getting the initial approval, so
I am going to tell you some points from that today, the
first point is terms and
conditions, what is this, if we do
not follow the terms and conditions of the policy,
like free existing condition
or providing any false information,
in this condition,
our claim will get rejected even after getting the initial approval,
this
is confirmed, so we should not provide any false information  Information or any other information is
not to be provided to the insurance company.
What happens in this is
that in some conditions,
some diseases are not covered in our policy and
when we get admitted for its treatment
and we
send the documents to the insurance company, then they
send the initial in a hurry but later, in
a day or two or at the time of finalization, when
they come to know that the
thing is not covered in our policy, then they reject it.
For this, we have to
first read the terms of the policy and keep it in
mind before getting the treatment. The
third reason is incomplete documents.
What happens in this is that we
send incomplete documents to our insurance company or
write some lie in it or send it and give some wrong
information, then that is also a reason for the
rejection of the film.
Even after getting the initial, they review it and
then reject it. So, we should
not provide them any such information that may lead to
rejection of our film. So, this thing happens to
us at the time of admission.  The fourth
point to be kept in mind is the waiting period. What is the waiting period?
When we want to buy a policy, there is a
waiting period for one month.
We cannot use that card or
health policy for one month.
After that, when our waiting period
of one month is completed, we
can use it. But even after that, there is another
waiting period.
What happens with our diseases? For example, if we have to undergo
surgery, then in some policies,
surgery is done after two years. If
we undergo surgery before that, then the claim will be
rejected. So, we should know
what all is being done during our waiting period and at what time. If
we take care of it, then
we will not have to face such problems.
[Music]
When we send our claim documents to the insurance company, the
company has made a process for it. So, if there is any mistake on
our part or on the part of the hospital in the TPT, due to which
we are
not able to follow that process, then due to this reason
also our claim may get rejected.  The claim gets rejected.
What happens in the sixth point is that
whenever we get
admitted to the hospital for our treatment, the
claim documents are
sent by the hospital to the insurance company. So
what happens is that the insurance company first
gives the initial approval but
within 24 hours it
wants to investigate the case, so for that case
investigation it
sends its investigator inside the hospital.
After coming inside the hospital, the
investigator
meets the patient or his attendants and gets the information about
when did he start suffering, when did he have the disease, that is, he does a
complete investigation about the treatment he is undergoing for which disease and also
files and signs the forms etc.
After that, the documents are
sent to the insurance company and
when the insurance company matches the hospital
documents and the customer's statement,
if there is a
difference in it, then the claim gets rejected. So
we have to keep this thing in mind that
whenever we go to the hospital  If you get admitted, then
whatever complaint or whatever disease related
thing the hospital people are writing and sending,
we should know about it in detail because if there is an
investigation in that case or an investigator
comes, then that thing should match from both the sides, the one from the
hospital should also match
and the one we are doing from the insurance
company should also match. If there is a
difference in those two points or there is a mismatch, then
our claim will be rejected
even after the initial approval comes. These were the 6
points which I told you in this video today.
Through this video, whatever
doubts you had regarding the rejection
might have been cleared. If you liked the video, then
like and subscribe to the channel. If you have any such questions,
like this viewer had written a question to us,
similarly if you have any questions, you can
write and send it to us in the comment section, I will
definitely answer it for you, like
in this video I have given you the answer by making an expression video, do
subscribe to the channel.
See you in the next video, till then,
Namaskar